Blog post for version 2.7 (#348)
MDAnalysis/MDAnalysis.github.io: _posts/2024-01-04-release-2.7.0.md

---
layout: post
title: Release 2.7.0 of MDAnalysis
---

We are happy to release version 2.7.0 of MDAnalysis!

This is a minor update to the MDAnalysis library.

This release of MDAnalysis is packaged under a 
[GPLv3+ license](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html).
Additionally all contributions made from commit 
[44733fc](https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/commit/44733fc214dcfdcc2b7cb3e3705258781bb491bd)
onwards are made under the 
[LGPLv2.1+ license](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/lgpl-2.1.en.html). 
More details about these license changes can be found in our [blog post][licensing update].

The minimum required NumPy version is 1.22.3.

Supported Python versions: **3.9, 3.10, 3.11, 3.12**. Support for version 
3.12 has been added in this release.

Supported Operating Systems:
  - **Linux** (on [x86-64][], [aarch64][])

>     - *Note: aarch64 can only be installed via pip for now*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
We now have aarch64 via conda-forge

- BioPython is now an optional dependency of MDAnalysis (PR #4332).
- Results for WatsonCrickDist nucleic acids analysis are now stored in
  analysis.nucleicacids.WatsonCrickDist.results.distances (PR #3735).

#### Deprecations:
- Importing ConverterBase from MDAnalysis.coordinates.base will not be possible
  after MDAnalysis 3.0 (PR #4253).
- Deprecation with intent of removal in MDAnalysis v3.0 of the X3DNA legacy
  code (PR #4333).
- Deprecation with intent of removal in MDAnalysis v3.0 of the TRZ reader and
  writer (PR #4335).
- Deprecation with intent of removal in MDAnalysis v3.0 of the
  MDAnalysis.lib.util.which method (PR #4340).
- The asel argument of the timeseries attribute of Readers is now deprecated
  in favour of the atomgroup argument (PR #4343).
- In nucleicacids.WatsonCrickDist, accepting lists of Residue objects was
  deprecated in favor of using ResidueGroup: using List[Residue] will be
  removed in release 3.0.0; instead use a ResidueGroup (PR #3735).
- In nucleicacids.WatsonCrickDist the result results.pair_distances was
  deprecated and will be removed in 3.0.0; use results.distances instead (PR #3735).

## Author statistics

> This release was the work of 24 contributors, **5** of which are **new contributors**.

Reviewer: I've got 13 contributors via the changelog?

Author: (I got 24 from what github says comparing the 2.7.0 and 2.6.1 tags - I haven't gone through to check but I'd guess it might be including some extra names due to some kind of github shenanigans; I'll go with the changelog list instead)

Our **new contributors** are:
- @jennaswa
- @Sumit112192
- @HeetVekariya
- @JoStoe
- @ljwoods2

## Acknowledgements

MDAnalysis thanks [NumFOCUS][] for its continued support as our fiscal sponsor and 

> the [Chan Zuckerberg Initiative][] for supporting MDAnalysis under an EOSS4 award.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [Chan Zuckerberg Initiative][] for supporting MDAnalysis under EOSS4 and EOSS5 awards.
```
Given that @jennaswa contributed + some of UGM folks that contributed

— The MDAnalysis Team

[x86-64]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86-64
[aarch64]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AArch64
[ARM64]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_M1
[installation instructions in the User Guide]: https://userguide.mdanalysis.org/stable/installation.html
[conda-forge channel]: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/mdanalysis
[PyPi]: https://pypi.org/project/MDAnalysis/
[NumFOCUS]: https://www.numfocus.org

> [CHANGELOG]: https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/blob/release-2.6.1/package/CHANGELOG

Reviewer: 2.7.0 url
